First draft for upgrade guide to v17 (#4310)
graphql/graphql-js: website/pages/upgrade-guides/v16-v17.mdx

this won't pass `validate` anymore.

See https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/4342

## Stream initialCount becomes non-nullable

The `initialCount` argument of the `@stream` directive is now non-nullable.

See https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/4322

## Removals

- Removed deprecated `getOperationType` function, use `getRootType` on the `GraphQLSchema` instance instead
- Removed deprecated `getVisitFn` function, use `getEnterLeaveForKind` instead
- Removed deprecated `printError` and `formatError` utilities, you can use `toString` or `toJSON` on the error as a replacement
- Removed deprecated `assertValidName` and `isValidNameError` utilities, use `assertName` instead
- Removed deprecated `assertValidExecutionArguments` function, use `assertValidSchema` instead
- Removed deprecated `getFieldDefFn` from `TypeInfo`
- Removed deprecated `TypeInfo` from `validate` https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/4187

## Deprecations

- Deprecated  `astFromValue` use `valueToLiteral` instead, when leveraging `valueToLiteral` ensure
  that you are working with externally provided values i.e. the SDL provided defaultValue to a variable.

> - Deprecated `valueFormAST` use `coerceInputLiteral` instead

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deprecated `valueFromAST` use `coerceInputLiteral` instead
```

---

import { Tabs } from 'nextra/components';
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
 
<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  Currently GraphQL v17 is in alpha, this guide is based on the alpha release and is subject to change.
</Callout>

# Breaking changes

## Default values

GraphQL schemas allow default values for input fields and arguments. Historically, GraphQL.js did not rigorously validate or coerce these
defaults during schema construction, leading to potential runtime errors or inconsistencies. For example:

- A default value of "5" (string) for an Int-type argument would pass schema validation but fail at runtime.
- Internal serialization methods like astFromValue could produce invalid ASTs if inputs were not properly coerced.

With the new changes default values will be validated and coerced during schema construction.

```graphql
input ExampleInput {
  value: Int = "invalid"  # Now triggers a validation error
}
```

This goes hand-in-hand with the deprecation of `astFromValue` in favor of `valueToLiteral`.

```ts
// Before (deprecated)
const defaultValue = astFromValue(internalValue, type);
// After
const defaultValue = valueToLiteral(externalValue, type);
```

> If you want to continue using the old behavior, you can use `defaultValue` in your schema definitions. The new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to continue using the old behavior, you can continue to use `defaultValue` when defining the schema programatically. The new
```

> behavior will be exposed as `default: { literal: <literal> }`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
behavior will be exposed as `default: { literal: <literal> }` or `default: { value: <externalValue> }`.
```

## `subscribe` return type

The `subscribe` function can now also return a non-Promise value, previously this was only a Promise.
This shouldn't change a lot as `await value` will still work as expected. This could lead to
some typing inconsistencies though.

## Remove `singleResult` from incremental results

You can remove branches that check for `singleResult` in your code, as it is no longer used.

## Node support

Dropped support for Node 14 (subject to change)

## Removed `TokenKindEnum`, `KindEnum` and `DirectiveLocationEnum` types

We have removed the `TokenKindEnum`, `KindEnum` and `DirectiveLocationEnum` types,
use `Kind`, `TokenKind` and `DirectiveLocation` instead. https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/3579

## Removed `graphql/subscription` module

use `graphql/execution` instead for subscriptions, all execution related exports have been
unified there.

## Removed `GraphQLInterfaceTypeNormalizedConfig` export

Use `ReturnType<GraphQLInterfaceType['toConfig']>` if you really need this

## Empty AST collections will be undefined

Empty AST collections will be presented by `undefined` rather than an empty array.

> ## `Info.variableValues`

Reviewer: The shape of `VariableValues` has been changed throughout the code base, also affecting `getArgumentValues`, `coerceInputLiteral`, `collectFields`, `getDirectiveValues`. It does not affect `valueFromAST` because we deprecated that so we decided not to update it.

The shape of `Info.variableValues` has changed to be an object containing
`sources` and `coerced` as keys.

A Source contains the `signature` and provided `value` pre-coercion for the
variable. A `signature` is an object containing the `name`, `input-type` and
`defaultValue` for the variable.

## Stream directive can't be on multiple instances of the same field

The `@stream` directive can't be on multiple instances of the same field,
this won't pass `validate` anymore.

See https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/4342

## Stream initialCount becomes non-nullable

The `initialCount` argument of the `@stream` directive is now non-nullable.

See https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/4322

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## GraphQLSchemas converted to configuration may no longer be assumed valid

The `assumeValid` config property exported by the `GraphQLSchema.toConfig()` method now passes through the original flag passed on creation of the `GraphQLSchema`. Previously, the `assumeValid` property would be to `true` if validation had been run, potentially concealing the original intent.

See https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/4244 and https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/issues/3448
```

## Removals

- Removed deprecated `getOperationType` function, use `getRootType` on the `GraphQLSchema` instance instead
- Removed deprecated `getVisitFn` function, use `getEnterLeaveForKind` instead
- Removed deprecated `printError` and `formatError` utilities, you can use `toString` or `toJSON` on the error as a replacement
- Removed deprecated `assertValidName` and `isValidNameError` utilities, use `assertName` instead
- Removed deprecated `assertValidExecutionArguments` function, use `assertValidSchema` instead
- Removed deprecated `getFieldDefFn` from `TypeInfo`
- Removed deprecated `TypeInfo` from `validate` https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/4187

## Deprecations

- Deprecated  `astFromValue` use `valueToLiteral` instead, when leveraging `valueToLiteral` ensure
  that you are working with externally provided values i.e. the SDL provided defaultValue to a variable.
- Deprecated `valueFromAST` use `coerceInputLiteral` instead

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deprecated `findBreakingChanges()` and `findDangerousChanges()`. Use `findSchemaChanges()` instead, which can also be used to find safe changes.
- Deprecated `serialize`. `parseValue`, and `parseLiteral` properties on scalar type configuration. Use `coerceOutputValue`, `coerceInputValue`, and `coerceInputLiteral` instead.

```

## New Features

- Added `hideSuggestions` option to `execute`/`validate`/`subscribe`/... to hide schema-suggestions in error messages
- Added `abortSignal` option to `graphql()`, `execute()`, and `subscribe()` allows cancellation of these methods;
  the `abortSignal` can also be passed to field resolvers to cancel asynchronous work that they initiate.
- `extensions` support `symbol` keys, in addition to the normal string keys.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added ability for resolver functions returning async iterables.
- Added `perEventExecutor` execution option to allows specifying a custom executor for subscription source stream events, which can be useful for preparing a per event execution context argument.
- Added `validateInputValue` and `validateInputLiteral` helpers to validate input values and literals, respectively.
- Added `replaceVariableValues` helper to replace variables within complex scalars uses as inputs. Internally, this allows variables embedded within complex scalars to finally use the correct default values.
- Added new `printDirective` helper.

```

Use the `validateInputValue` helper to retrieve the actual errors.

## Removals

- Removed deprecated `getOperationType` function, use `getRootType` on the `GraphQLSchema` instance instead
- Removed deprecated `getVisitFn` function, use `getEnterLeaveForKind` instead
- Removed deprecated `printError` and `formatError` utilities, you can use `toString` or `toJSON` on the error as a replacement
- Removed deprecated `assertValidName` and `isValidNameError` utilities, use `assertName` instead
- Removed deprecated `assertValidExecutionArguments` function, use `assertValidSchema` instead
- Removed deprecated `getFieldDefFn` from `TypeInfo`
- Removed deprecated `TypeInfo` from `validate` https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/4187

## Deprecations

- Deprecated  `astFromValue` use `valueToLiteral` instead, when leveraging `valueToLiteral` ensure
  that you are working with externally provided values i.e. the SDL provided defaultValue to a variable.
- Deprecated `valueFromAST` use `coerceInputLiteral` instead
- Deprecated `findBreakingChanges()` and `findDangerousChanges()`. Use `findSchemaChanges()` instead, which can also be used to find safe changes.

> - Deprecated `serialize`. `parseValue`, and `parseLiteral` properties on scalar type configuration. Use `coerceOutputValue`, `coerceInputValue`, and `coerceInputLiteral` instead.

Reviewer 2: Is this simply a rename or is more work required?

- [Spec PR](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/pull/1110) / [RFC](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg/blob/main/rfcs/DeferStream.md)
- enabled only when using `experimentalExecuteIncrementally()`, use of a schema or operation with `@defer`/`@stream` directives within `execute()` will now throw.
- enable early execution with the new `enableEarlyExecution` configuration option for `experimentalExecuteIncrementally()`.

### Experimental Support for Fragment Arguments

- [Spec PR](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/pull/1081)
- enable with the new `experimentalFragmentArguments` configuration option for `parse()`.
- new experimental `Kind.FRAGMENT_ARGUMENT` for visiting
- new experimental `TypeInfo` methods and options for handling fragment arguments.
- coerce AST via new function `coerceInputLiteral()` with experimental fragment variables argument (as opposed to deprecated `valueFromAST()` function).

## Features

- Added `hideSuggestions` option to `execute`/`validate`/`subscribe`/... to hide schema-suggestions in error messages
- Added `abortSignal` option to `graphql()`, `execute()`, and `subscribe()` allows cancellation of these methods;

>   the `abortSignal` can also be passed to field resolvers to cancel asynchronous work that they initiate.

Reviewer 2: “Can also be” - how? Should this be “is also”? Also, is it via resolveinfo?
